# Amondal Backstory

Born to the daughter of a wealthy Tashalar wine merchant and her travelling bard
lover, Amondal Reeve was thought sickly due to her pale skin, colorless eyes,
and small formless nose. After seeing the visage of their child, Amondal's
parents left without warning, leaving her in the care of her wealthy grandfather
Doron Reeve. Despite her strange appearance the old man loved her greatly and
doted on her obsessively for eight years. One day when she fell ill, and the
local healers were unable to help they recommended that Doron take her to
Baulder's Gate for treatment at a temple. Turning over the care of the family
estate to his son Yurik, Doron started to arrange a trip to the city.
 
Doron hired a servant that could help disguise Amondal, so that she could
journey outside of the estate without being shunned. Upon their arrival at the
Gray Harbor, Doron procured a carriage to Upper City, and found suitable
lodgings at an inn. While the servants helped her settle into the room, her
grandfather sent a messenger to the temple to request an audience with one of
the healers.  
 
The next day Amondal was taken to the temple, where the healer was able to cure
her illness. However, upon further inspection it was clear that the healing made
no change to her strange visage. Despite the disappointment that she would not
look normal, Doron decided to cheer her up with a shopping spree. They travelled
around the lower city, visiting a variety of different merchants, bakeries, and
sweet shops. 
 
Toward the end of the day, Doron and Amondal got turned around in the dwindling
light and ended up at a dead end in a run-down section of the Lower city.
Suddenly they found themselves facing a group of men that were now blocking the
entrance to the alleyway. Doron told Amondal to run as fast as should could
until she found the closest guard. As she fled from the alleyway, she heard her
grandfather talking calmly with the men and offering to give them all of his
money until he cried out in pain. Unfortunately she didn't know where to go and
got lost quickly. As darkness fell, she tried to find her way back to the inn to
look for help, but never quite made it. 
 
After spending the night huddled against the side of a building, she was able to
find a guard post to ask for help. The guards openly scoffed after looking over
the dirty little child, believing that she was trying to con them into taking
her to Upper City. Hunger and desperation driving her, she attempted to sneak
into Upper City to return to the Inn and find out if her grandfather had
returned. However, she was soon caught and forced back into the lower city.
 
During this time, a young urchin girl had been following and watching Amondal,
as she had originally witnessed her traveling through lower city with Doron.
Taking pity the girl approached Amondal, offered her some food scraps, and
introduced herself as Kilashandra. Wary at first, Amondal soon accepted the food
and began to tell her new found friend  all about what happened. Kilashandra
explained that she could lead Amondal back to the inn to find her grandfather.
Upon reaching the inn, they only found that the old man had not returned, and
despite the guards being alerted, the proprietor caught sight of her true face
and called for help, forcing the two young girls to flee. 
 
Kilashandra led them back to the safety of her retreat in the run-down section
of lower city, promising to aid Amondal in learning the fate of her grandfather.
Finally they found another street urchin boy Dunny who had witnessed the
mugging, and learned that despite Doronâ€™s willingness to give them everything he
had, the men severely beat and left him for dead. Before leaving the gang leader
stated that "We were hired to retrieve your signet ring and convey that Yurik
expects to never see Doron or the demon child ever again. " After the men left,
Dunny exited his hiding place and ran for help. However, by the time the guards
and a healer arrived it was too late to save the old man. 
 
Heartbroken at the death of her grandfather, Amondal vowed to take vengeance
against her uncle. Kilashandra helped to hide Amondal's supposed malady, but the
two soon found out that Amondal had been blessed with a rare gift, the ability
to change her features. 

Over the next 8 years, the two were inseparable, with Kilashandra teaching
Amondal all about life in the city, tips for staying safe through stealth, and
where to find the best food.  At first, Amondal was hesitant to steal from
others, only looking for ways to subsist on handouts or the things that people
discarded. However, life in Baulder's Gate changed her perspective of the world,
as she saw that the rich cared little for the plight of the poor. Furthermore,
she often witnessed that those who were in power were willing to betray or
sacrifice anyone who got in their way. This change in perspective strengthened
her vow of vengeance against her uncle, which now included anyone who considered
themselves better. Throughout her time in lower city, she often helped the other
urchins to survive, sharing food and helping to create safe places for all of
them to hide. 
 
Soon after Kilashandra turned 17 and Amondal turned 16, they found out that a
group in the lower city were rounding up those who lived in squalor, including
several of the urchin children. Rumors amongst the remaining urchins was that
the group worshipped one of the dark gods, and the captured individuals were to
be slaves or sacrifices. Appalled that the guards were doing nothing about this,
the two decided to try to find the group and put a stop to it. However, during
the ensuing encounter, Kilashandra was killed while saving Amondal from the
leader of the group. 
 
After dispatching the group and its leader, Amondal led the guards to the groups
hideout. Ultimately she received several bounty rewards for the band of outlaws,
and used the money to procure gear, and headed to the Gray Harbor to find
passage back to Tashalar. Unfortunately she didn't have enough left to book
direct passage. However, in talking with one of the captains, she discovered
that she could use her innate skills to work her way back home. Despite
Amondal's inexperience on a ship, the captain saw a capable young woman before
her and agreed to hire her on. 
 
For the next ten years, Amondal learned a great deal from the captain and crew.
Then one day they were given a job that would bring them to a port in Tashalar.
With 6 weeks of rest and relaxation Amondal headed off to confront her uncle.
Amondal used the next month to travel to her family estate and observe the
habits of her uncle to determine the best time to strike. She was appalled to
see that the estate was in utter ruins, with the winery shut down and the
vineyards a shadow of their once former glory. During this time she was able to
learn that her uncle was in the process of selling the estate to her
grandfathers' best friend Joran, a local merchant and good man that had once
given her a doll in her long forgotten youth. Not wanting to see the estate fall
deeper into obscurity, she waited until the transaction was completed, and
followed Yurik to an inn close to the port. 
 
Amondal snuck into Yurik's room, and found several incriminating documents that
proved his nefarious deeds, including the contract for the death of Doron and
Amondal. With this evidence in hand, she confronted Yurik and explained that she
would be turning him over to the authorities. However, he attempted to kill her
and she dispatched him quickly and escaped the scene in the visage of a well
known criminal from Baulder's Gate. After reverting to her standard appearance
she returned to the ship. With her business in her homeland concluded, she was
ready to return to Baulder's Gate and look for new adventures. 
